Nine months ago when I first walked up the stairs in the Media Arts Center and into the glass-walled room at the far end of the atrium, I had no idea what to expect. Starting my junior year, I was eager yet nervous to join The Campanile.
I had never been part of a print publication. I had never interviewed people I didn't know. I had never designed pages or stayed late after school at production. I had never managed a group of 30 people in a leadership position.
Nine months later, I've grown tremendously from my experience on The Campanile. Working with a group of passionate journalism students in a tight community has been one of the most fun and enriching experiences in my high school career.
From my time on the publication, I've learned many of the hard skills critical to the field of journalism. Over the school year, I improved my journalism writing to include succinct leads and the most important information at the beginning in the inverted triangle style.
Interviewing strangers has always been difficult for me, yet I confronted the challenge and learned strategies to break the ice and make conversations comfortable. In the busy atmosphere of production, I sharpened my InDesign skills designing pages with smooth and creative layouts.
These experiences have shown me the effort that goes into publishing any newspaper and have increased my appreciation for journalism.
Even more important than concrete journalism skills, being on The Campanile has tested my ability to work with others. Communicating with artists, photographers, story authors, and editors is a major part of being a part of any publication.
Any delays with one story or one photograph can hold up other parts of the process. I've learned the importance of active collaboration and effective communication strategies to achieve active collaboration, for example, keeping fast messaging channels on Slack open for intraday messaging. Working together, we've printed eight amazing issues that I'm proud to be a part of.
Furthermore, assuming a leadership position on The Campanile has reinforced my understanding of a good leader. First as a newsletter editor and then as an editor-in-chief, I've worked closely with the rest of the leadership team to coordinate schedules.
I've presented myself as friendly and approachable to the rest of the staff, frequently checking in with unfinished stories or incomplete pages. As a role model, I've worked extra hard to meet all my commitments and actively offer help to those who need it. My experiences have also taught me the importance of accepting criticism and continually seeking self-improvement.
While directly relevant to journalism, I've applied many of the skills I've developed on The Campanile in a broader scope. Communication and leadership are necessary for working with any team, and socially conversational skills have made it smoother for me to meet new people. 
In our politically polarized world disrupted by innovations in digital technology, journalism is becoming increasingly important. While the future of digital and print journalism is uncertain, what is certain is that the dissemination of truthful and relevant information is critical in the digital era. As a student journalist, I'm excited to be a part of the movement to combat misinformation and to be part of the impact.