I'm a senior now, halfway through my senior year. How quickly time passes! It almost feels like the school year has just started, yet I know this is probably the last winter I will spend in Palo Alto before I leave for the next chapter of my life.
As a senior, I've also assumed greater responsibilities on The Campanile as one of the Editors-in-Chief. The past four issues have been exciting, fun, stressful, nerve-racking, and a thousand other things in between. From a leadership position, I've gained valuable experience and strengthened my journalism skills all while developing a tighter connection with our newspaper community.
Even though I had some experience managing the last cycle of the previous year, transitioning into independently leading the publication without the help of last year's editors was more difficult than I had anticipated.
From the beginning, it was part of my role to acclimate our new members and to meet their needs as they were learning the ropes. I've gained an appreciation for the importance of remaining active and engaged: during the first cycle, frequent check-ins and buddies helped every story get turned in on time.
As the year went on, it became clear that we had new challenges to deal with as a publication with a small staff—only 25 members, compared to 35 or 40 previously. We implemented a system where each person writes the equivalent of one and a half stories with one main story and one shorter story, or one main story and one story with a partner.
While this system was needed to get enough stories for our paper to print, it presented new challenges in communication. For example, it was difficult for people who didn't necessarily know each other very well to coordinate and write a story without any clear responsibilities. The second and third cycles were more of a challenge; frequently, stories were incomplete and had to be moved online, especially the partner stories.
Additionally, production was more difficult with a smaller staff. Instead of two people collaborating to work on one page during production week, we only had enough people to assign one person to a page and have a partner who was also doing another page. The incoming staff members also had less experience with InDesign, dragging the process out and leading to frequent weekend scrambles within the editor team to complete pages.
To address these challenges, the editors and I took on more responsibility to help the staff. I learned the importance of taking the initiative, filling in when stories needed to be written for the school board election and inflation in the United States affecting Town & Country prices. We also stuck with live checks during production instead of critiquing a PDF to help our new staff improve on InDesign, which I felt personalized the experience and made production more engaging.
As our new staff became acclimated and fell into the rhythm of being on The Campanile, we bounced back and improved greatly during the fourth cycle. Even with the challenge of having Thanksgiving Break in the middle, most stories were turned in on time and we wrapped up the year with four solid issues of the paper.
I love working with a group of passionate students to shine light on important issues and serve our local community. What could be more rewarding?