Spring is a time of change. It's a time of possibility, a time to say goodbye to the old and welcome the new. And this spring, like every spring, it is the responsibility of the Editors-in-Chief to start the process for choosing the leadership team for the publication next year.
Setting up the application process was more challenging than I expected because all of the fine details had to be ironed out and agreed upon. For example, we decided to add a photo editor and social media manager position to better facilitate our social media presence which we felt was lacking last year and first semester. Adding new positions and revising the responsibilities of old positions took several planning and discussion sessions, which we finished in time to announce the application process after the first cycle of second semester.
After each staff member had submitted their binders and editing evaluations, choosing the candidates required considering my personal observations, the results of a staff poll and the thoughts of the other editors and our adviser. In the discussion, it was important not to overpower anyone's opinion and consider all aspects of the case—factors like which candidates would collaborate the best, which candidates would have the best relationship with the rest of the staff and which candidates had the skills needed for the job—and come to a consensus.
Furthermore, we involved the current year's leadership team with the decisions. As the section editors had more experience with the individual writers, they offered valuable feedback that ended up being important in our decisions. We also wanted to make sure that every senior had a say in the process and agreed with our process and line of reasoning.
In the end, every editor agreed on the decision that we hoped would be best for the publication, revealing the importance of respectful discussion and making sure no opinion is left unvoiced. And hopefully, the people in charge of the publication next year can continue our tradition of excellence.