The last four years have been the most important years of my life. Through all the successes, failures, accomplishments and struggles of high school, I've flourished in discovering my passions and grown as a person.
Now that I'm about to leave Palo Alto, it's an exciting yet melancholy time where I have to enjoy the last few moments I'll have with some of my friends, say goodbye to the amazing teachers who have helped me grow and celebrate the rich experiences that have driven my life. And through all of it, being a part of The Campanile has been the most fun, challenging and rewarding experience that has taught me how to be a leader and an effective collaborator for the real world.
This semester, as an Editor-in-Chief, it was part of my responsibility to welcome and train new sophomores joining our publication. Since we barely had enough students last semester to fill all 16 pages of our paper, the ten new journalists eager to write stories and design pages were a very welcome addition to our staff. However, they needed to learn our schedule, our writing process and design style.
We started by running through bootcamp slides describing how to write for each section and the responsibilities of staff writers. Learning from the beginning of the year, we modified the otherwise-dull presentations to include videos and activities to increase engagement—for example, we incorporated a lede writing activity in the lifestyle presentation. And while these changes did make our bootcamp more effective, the majority of the learning for the new staff members still came from learning through experience in the first cycle.
Improving from first semester, I took a more active role in checking in with the new journalists, and instead of waiting for others to ask me questions, proactively asking if each staff member needed help. My active presence helping writers brainstorm ideas, find sources to contact and choose the best quotes made a significant impact on improving the publication and helping the development of the new staff members. This semester showed me how, rather than waiting for people to seek help, taking the initiative and actively supporting every member of the team is important for being an effective leader.
Additionally, watching the new staff members make connections and build friendships with each other and the rest of the publication highlighted the importance of bonding. While the editors and I were too busy with managing the publication and lacked spare class time to plan special bonding events, production was especially effective in encouraging page partners to build stronger relationships which made communication more efficient. When working with any team, getting to know the other members as people improves the effectiveness and fruitfulness of collaboration.
As I look back on my time at The Campanile, I'm immensely thankful that I had the opportunity to lead a group of passionate students on an amazing publication that has enriched my high school experience. While it hasn't all been smooth sailing, I've overcome challenges and learned from my mistakes to become a better critical thinker, writer and leader. Inevitably, though, the publication will be passed on to the next leadership team, and while I'm leaving Palo Alto High School, The Campanile has changed me and will always be a part of me.