Every day, while we frantically interview sources, write articles, and design pages to be printed, we rarely stop and ask ourselves the question, why? Why journalism? What good does our effort in journalism bring to the world?
To me, journalism is more than writing up a news article and publishing it for a few old guys in Palo Alto with nothing better to do to read. To me, journalism is about keeping your community updated with the latest news, bringing light to difficult topics that sometimes people don't want to talk about to bring change, and speaking out against discrimination to help underserved minorities to gain a voice in the world.
As a new member of the Campanile staff, I've seen a tremendous growth in my experiences with scholastic media this year.
In September, I challenged myself by being on the breaking news team, tasked to report on events as they occur. Being new to news writing, it was difficult for me to quickly and efficiently interview sources and write a news story on a moment's notice.
Despite these challenges, I published two solid news articles on vaccine mandates and a case of the West Nile virus in mosquitoes in Palo Alto. On breaking news, I got an opportunity to keep my community informed by reporting on urgent, newsworthy events.
Another challenge I took on was writing a story on the budget shortages of the Ravenswood School District of East Palo Alto. A major difficulty was finding enough sources to interview since many of the Ravenswood staff were reluctant to give interviews about the situation. In the end, I managed to get CBO William Eger to speak about the budget and quotes from the superintendent Gina Sudaria at a board meeting.
Gathering sources for the story was challenging, but I think the story was very important in bringing awareness to the struggles of a neighboring district. Since Palo Alto is a very affluent community, it is easy to forget that East Palo Alto isn't, and that the public school system in East Palo Alto is funded far less than that of Palo Alto.
My story directly addressed these challenges and brought to the Palo Alto community if not a desire to help neighboring communities, a greater understanding of the often-forgettable privileges they enjoy.
Moreover, being on a publication with many fellow students has improved my ability to work with other people. I've always had a hard time collaborating  on projects because I haven't been good at communicating effectively with others.
However, with the page partner system forcing me to design pages with another person and also working on a spotlight team with two other members, I think I've improved my communication skills and my soft workspace skills to work effectively with others.
Because of my growth on The Campanile, journalism has had a significant impact on my life as a high school student. More awareness of current events, a greater sense of community, and an improvement of collaboration skills have all improved the student I am.
Journalism is an ever-changing field currently in a state of transition, with the advent of online technologies making obsolete print media. While the future may be uncertain, one thing is for certain: nothing will ever make obsolete bringing quality news to local communities. As journalism continues to evolve, we must continually ask ourselves as journalists, why? What does journalism mean to you?